>> Brian Holt: So
let's go back to details.
We've gone this entire class,
we haven't talked about actually one of
the more fundamental core concepts to
react, which is the life cycle methods.
And we've dealt with one of them,
which is get initial state, which is
whenever you first create a component,
one of the first methods it
calls is get initial state.
There's actually a couple other steps in
its lifecycle of a component that you can
hook into to do very interesting things.
So the first one definitely
is getInitialState,
that's gonna be the first one
/constructor if you're using ES6 classes.
The next one is called componentWillMount
which gets called right before your
component gets put into the DOM.
So if you need to do anything
before it's put into the DOM,
this is the place that you
would typically do it.
I will say that I almost
never use componentWillMount.
That's usually not useful to me.
The one that I use a lot and
you will use a lot is componentDidMount.
So you call it right after
it gets put onto the DOM.
OK so component did mount.
That gets called right after
it gets put into the DOM.
Now this is useful because we're gonna
talk about universal server side
rendering of react.
You can render your app entirely
on your node server and
then send down the complete mark up.
Supercool and
it's actually not super difficult to do.
The nice thing is that componentWillMount,
if anything needs to get run also in
the node environment, you put it in
componentWillMount cuz componentWillMount
does get called in the node environments.
ComponentWillMount does get
called in the node environment.
ComponentDidMount does not get
And I think that logically follows, right?
It doesn't actually get put onto a DOM,
so it never gets called.
So, let's talk about the things
that go into componentDidMount.
>> Speaker 2: We've
actually done it before.
Performance things, reasons for
did mount over will mount?
>> Brian Holt: I can't think of any
perf reasons that you would do it.
Other than like, again if you didn't want
to get called into the node environment.
That's really the only consideration.
But the thing that you can guarantee
in componentDidMount is the browser,
the browser DOM APIs are available, right?
Because if it gets mounted into the DOM
you can guarantee that the DOM isn't
there, right?
Whereas componentWillMount, you have
no guarantee that the DOM is available.
So anything that you have to
interact with the DOM, right.
For the most part, you don't directly
want to interact with the DOM when you're
working with React.
You want React to interact with the DOM,
and then you interact with React.
That's generally the pattern.
However this is web development,
things are messy.
Sometimes you just have
to do things like that.
So that's where you would do it,
is componentDidMount.
You do AJAX in componentDidMount
because first of all you
want to display something.
They see something, whether that's
a loading stage or something like that.
So that's why you want to
do an incomponented mount.
You want to be able to see something and
then once you actually have the data come
back from AJAX then you display
whatever you're looking for.
So AJAX gets done in componentDidMount.
If you need to integrate with jQuery
we talked a little bit about doing
jQuery.payments you would do that
inside of componentDidMount.
If you need to set up any side event
listeners, which again, suck, but
if you need to,
you do that in componentDidMount.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
if you're working with D3,
you'll do a bunch of stuff
in componentDidMount.
So, as you can see, there's a bunch
of uses for componentDidMount.
That's why you often do have
to use componentDidMount.
And then the last one is
componentWillUnmount.
So, that's right before it leaves the DOM.
And this is almost exclusively for
cleanup, right?
So, if you put any DOM listeners on,
and you have to go remove them, or
you have memory leaks,
anything else that you need to do,
that you need to clean up before
you remove that component.
>> Speaker 2: If you are using
something for like, a pub sub,
is componentWillUnmount where you would
want to have it like, stop listening?
>> Brian Holt: Yep, unsubscribe.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Yep, absolutely.
>> Speaker 2: Sublime tool question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
They're not getting any auto completes for
the HTML.
Is that supposed to be included in that
whole thing?
So he needs another package?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I'm assuming,
well, auto completes.
It depends on what kind of auto
complete you're talking about.
If you're talking about emmet,
specifically, there is
some configuration to it.
And there's a stack overflow
question that I asked [LAUGH] that
one of the authors of the packages comes
and tells me how to get emmet to work.
So I would recommend checking that out.
For everything else, I think there's
another package that someone else uses.
And I don't recall what it is.
[SOUND] But anyway,
there's more configuration to be done.
Unfortunately I don't remember what it is.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
Any questions so
far about life cycle methods?
>> Brian Holt: So, there are a few
others that are much more niche.
There's like getDefaultProps if for
whatever reason you needed default props.
That's usually called at the root
level of your application.
This can be useful for things like
dependency injection if you're into that.
I am not so I typically don't but
this is somewhere that you could do it.
I don't believe I've actually ever
shipped code with getDefaultProps.
So that tells you how often it gets used.
There is shouldComponentUpdate,
which I do use occasionally.
That's almost exclusively used for,
I'm gonna say it's used exclusively for
performance reasons.
So the way that React tells if
the component used a update is
it looks at it's state.
And if the state has not been modified
from the last time it saw it, it says,
cool nothing changed,
I'm just not gonna even rerun the render
method because none of the state changed.
But let's say you have deeply nested
data that has to go all the way in and
check every tiny, little thing and
then come all the way back out.
Right?
That's expensive as you might imagine.
So if you're having a bunch of re-renders
being called on deeply nested data,
that's gonna be slow.
It's gonna slow down your re-renders and
it's gonna be visibly noticeable.
So React kind of gives you an escape hatch
for that called shouldComponentUpdate.
And if you are going to be better at
telling React to update than React itself
will be, then that's when you kind
of lean on shouldComponentUpdate.
So, for example, maybe you can
look at some id and say, okay,
if just the id changed then
I know I need to update.
But if the id didn't change then don't
bother looking at everything else.
That's something you would
do in shouldComponentUpdate.
Another thing is what happens if you have
a component that just never updates?
Or should never update than you just say
shouldComponentUpdate, return false.
And then it will never update ever.
Question?
>> Speaker 2: Okay this is a remark coming
back to the using AJAX in the didMount.
>> Brian Holt: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Anton is asking,
is it really better to make AJAX calls
in componentDidMount rather than
componentWillMount?
I heard that someone from React
community suggested to use timers
in componentDidMountHook but
AJAX calls and componentWillNotHook?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I mean I can see what
you're getting at because you wanna kick
off those AJAX calls as soon as possible.
Honestly, the difference between willMount
and didMount is gonna be in milliseconds,
so I think you're taking the happy
path by just putting it in didMount.
And your code looks better,
it's easier to read.
If those milliseconds are precious and
critical to you, then you can
do some more fancy-pants stuff.
But I would argue that you
wouldn't do it in willMount,
you would actually go even
further outside of that.
And maybe doing it even before
React bootstraps, right?
Because then you're gonna
cut out a bunch of time and
then do some sort of like
side loading of cache.
So my simple answer to that question is
that's definitely an advanced use case and
I would not suggest going down
there unless you have to.
>> Brian Holt: Going back
to shouldComponentUpdate.
I recommend avoiding shouldComponentUpdate
until you absolutely must use it.
React is really good at what it does.
It's really good at finding difs and
being really fast about it, especially for
shallow data.
For like stuff that we've done here.
Nothing we've done here should we ever
put shouldComponentUpdates because
as-is is fast enough.
The reason why I say that is you're going
to come back later to these components and
you're going to update something and
all of a sudden you're going to expect
it to change data in a different way.
And if you have a shouldComponentUpdate
return false, your component's
never going to update and you're going
to be like why is this not updating?
I'm changing the data
why is it not updating?
So it introduces these weird
bugs especially as you come back
to maintain stuff.
So it's like let's React do React,
right and
then come back to fixing
that are the bottlenecks.
This is also generally good programming
advice like don't introduce caching,
don't introduce minimalization,
all that stuff,
until you absolutely have to
because that stuff's hard, right?
You ends up with bigger problems.
Does that make sense?
Something I'm not gonna show you today,
but one can look at later.
There's a thing called the React
perf tools, which come from React.
And you can actually visualize and
see charts of where your application
is wasting render cycles.
So it has three different metrics,
print inclusive, print exclusive, and
print wasted.
Print inclusive is going to
include life cycle methods.
Print exclusive is going to
exclude life cycle methods.
And print wasted is just going to show you
where you're literally just wasting time.
You're literally just running renders
that are not doing anything or
all that kind of stuff.
This will be really telling of where you
should put in shouldComponentUpdate, so
definitely dig into those, especially
if you have an app that's going slow.
And one thing I'll definitely throw
out is avoid putting your SPGs
as React components.
SPGs tend to get complicated really
quickly, just cuz there's lots of lines
and paths and shapes and
all sorts of stuff like that.
There's cool stuff you can do with it,
right?
React knows how to do SPG
cuz it's just XML, right?
You can do JSX, SPGs, but
they tend to be slow.
So if you're not doing any sort of like
direct manipulation of the SVG with React,
I'd say, leave them outside of React.
>> Speaker 3: Would you
go hardware acceleration?
>> Brian Holt: No difference, right.
The browser is still rendering
in SVG the same way.
So, no that's however
the browser's doing it.
This is just how it gets
to the browser eventually.
>> Speaker 2: I'm not sure if
this one got asked already.
Michael is asking does onEnter
still exist in React Router?
>> Brian Holt: No.
>> Brian Holt: Good question.
I didn't do anything with animation so
you'd have to go look yourself.
I don't believe it did make it, though.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, I think you would
just lean on the typical React lifecycles
of how you would normally
do React animations.